
# flightplanner

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

`flightplanner` allows users to create flight plans for the Litchi software using input data such as latitude and longitude of an origin point, dimensions and orientation of a survey array, done camera field of view and desired altitude. It calculates the image footprint using this information and calculates the best position of photo survey points. It also provides the ability to visualize the resulting flight plan and survey photo grid.

## Installation

You can install the development version of flightplanner like this:

```{r}
# install package 'remotes' if necessary
# will already be installed if 'devtools' is installed
install.packages("remotes")

# argument 'build_opts = NULL' only needed if you want to build vignettes
remotes::install_github("jonesor/flightplanner", build_opts = NULL)
```

## Usage

First remember to load the package.

```{r}
library(flightplanner)
```

To plan a mission, follow these steps:

1. Decide on an origin point for your survey area, defined by its latitude and longitude coordinates (e.g. 55.125505, 10.268467). This will be the lower left point of your image grid.
2. Determine the horizontal (west-east) and vertical (north-south) extent of your survey area, measured in meters from the origin point. For example, you might choose a horizontal limit of 100 meters to the east and a vertical extent of 200 meters to the north.
3. Set the altitude of your survey area, measured in meters above the origin point. For example, you might choose an altitude of 60 meters.
4. Once you have decided on these parameters, you can use them to generate an image grid using the provided code. This grid will help you plan your mission and ensure that you capture high-quality images of your desired survey area. 

Like this:

```{r}
mission1 <- litchiGrid(
  55.125505,
  10.268467,
  altitude = 60,
  overlap_width = 0.50,
  overlap_height = 0.50,
  survey_xaxis = 100,
  survey_yaxis = 200)
  
```

This file can then be exported like this, ready to be uploaded to the Litchi Mission Hub.

```
write.csv(x = mission1, file = "missionFiles/mission1.csv",
row.names = FALSE)
```

## Note

WARNING: This package was developed for my own use and may contain bugs or errors. Please use caution when using it, and carefully check your plan using Litchi or Google Earth. The plans generated by this package are ignorant of landscape topology, trees, buildings and other structures, so please plan accordingly. The use of this package and the resulting plans are your responsibility. I hope that it can be useful, but use it at your own risk.
